The Iliad of Homer 



test; and it is by this troublesome standard that a large portion of 
historical evidence is sifted. Consistency is no less pertinacious 
and exacting in its demands. In brief, to write a history, we must 
know more than mere facts. Human nature, viewed under an 
induction of extended experience, is the best help to the criticism 
of human history. Historical characters can only be estimated 
by the standard which human experience, whether actual or 
traditionary, has furnished. To form correct views of individuals 
we must regard them as forming parts of a great whole — we must 
measure them by their relation to the mass of beings by whom 
[x] they are surrounded, and, in contemplating the incidents in their 

lives or condition which tradition has handed down to us, we 
must rather consider the general bearing of the whole narrative, 
than the respective probability of its details. 

It is unfortunate for us, that, of some of the greatest men, we 
know least, and talk most. Homer, Socrates, and Shakespere 1 

1 "What," says Archdeacon Wilberforce, "is the natural root of loyalty as 
distinguished from such mere selfish desire of personal security as is apt to take 
its place in civilized times, but that consciousness of a natural bond among the 
families of men which gives a fellow-feeling to whole clans and nations, and 
thus enlists their affections in behalf of those time-honoured representatives of 
their ancient blood, in whose success they feel a personal interest? Hence the 
delight when we recognize an act of nobility or justice in our hereditary princes 

'"Tuque prior, tu parce genus qui ducis Olympo, 
Projice tela manu sanguis meus' 

"So strong is this feeling, that it regains an engrafted influence even when 
history witnesses that vast convulsions have rent and weakened it and the 
Celtic feeling towards the Stuarts has been rekindled in our own days towards 
the grand daughter of George the Third of Hanover. 

"Somewhat similar may be seen in the disposition to idolize those great 
lawgivers of man's race, who have given expression, in the immortal language 
of song, to the deeper inspirations of our nature. The thoughts of Homer 
or of Shakespere are the universal inheritance of the human race. In this 
mutual ground every man meets his brother, they have been bet forth by the 
providence of God to vindicate for all of us what nature could effect, and 
that, in these representatives of our race, we might recognize our common 
benefactors.' — Doctrine of the Incarnation, pp. 9, 10. 



INTRODUCTION. 



xiii 



have, perhaps, contributed more to the intellectual enlightenment 
of mankind than any other three writers who could be named, 
and yet the history of all three has given rise to a boundless ocean 
of discussion, which has left us little save the option of choosing 
which theory or theories we will follow. The personality of 
Shakespere is, perhaps, the only thing in which critics will allow 
us to believe without controversy; but upon everything else, 
even down to the authorship of plays, there is more or less of 
doubt and uncertainty. Of Socrates we know as little as the 
contradictions of Plato and Xenophon will allow us to know. He 
was one of the dramatis personae in two dramas as unlike in 
principles as in style. He appears as the enunciator of opinions 
as different in their tone as those of the writers who have handed 
them down. When we have read Plato or Xenophon, we think 
we know something of Socrates; when we have fairly read and 
examined both, we feel convinced that we are something worse 
than ignorant. 

It has been an easy, and a popular expedient, of late years, to 
deny the personal or real existence of men and things whose life 
and condition were too much for our belief. This system — which 
has often comforted the religious sceptic, and substituted the 
consolations of Strauss for those of the New Testament — has 
been of incalculable value to the historical theorists of the last 
and present centuries. To question the existence of Alexander 
the Great, would be a more excusable act, than to believe in 
that of Romulus. To deny a fact related in Herodotus, because 
it is inconsistent with a theory developed from an Assyrian 
inscription which no two scholars read in the same way, is more 
pardonable, than to believe in the good-natured old king whom 
the elegant pen of Florian has idealized — Numa Pompilius. 

Scepticism has attained its culminating point with respect 
to Homer, and the state of our Homeric knowledge may be 
described as a free permission to believe any theory, provided 
we throw overboard all written tradition, concerning the author [xi] 



xiv 



The Iliad of Homer 



or authors of the Iliad and Odyssey. What few authorities exist 
on the subject, are summarily dismissed, although the arguments 
appear to run in a circle. "This cannot be true, because it is not 
true; and, that is not true, because it cannot be true." Such seems 
to be the style, in which testimony upon testimony, statement 
upon statement, is consigned to denial and oblivion. 

It is, however, unfortunate that the professed biographies 
of Homer are partly forgeries, partly freaks of ingenuity and 
imagination, in which truth is the requisite most wanting. Before 
taking a brief review of the Homeric theory in its present 
conditions, some notice must be taken of the treatise on the Life 
of Homer which has been attributed to Herodotus. 

According to this document, the city of Cumae in iEolia, was, 
at an early period, the seat of frequent immigrations from various 
parts of Greece. Among the immigrants was Menapolus, the son 
of Ithagenes. Although poor, he married, and the result of the 
union was a girl named Critheis. The girl was left an orphan at 
an early age, under the guardianship of Cleanax, of Argos. It 
is to the indiscretion of this maiden that we "are indebted for 
so much happiness." Homer was the first fruit of her juvenile 
frailty, and received the name of Melesigenes, from having been 
born near the river Meles, in Boeotia, whither Critheis had been 
transported in order to save her reputation. 

"At this time," continues our narrative, "there lived at Smyrna 
a man named Phemius, a teacher of literature and music, who, 
not being married, engaged Critheis to manage his household, 
and spin the flax he received as the price of his scholastic 
labours. So satisfactory was her performance of this task, and 
so modest her conduct, that he made proposals of marriage, 
declaring himself, as a further inducement, willing to adopt her 
son, who, he asserted, would become a clever man, if he were 
carefully brought up. " 

They were married; careful cultivation ripened the talents 
which nature had bestowed, and Melesigenes soon surpassed 



INTRODUCTION. 



xv 



his schoolfellows in every attainment, and, when older, rivalled 
his preceptor in wisdom. Phemius died, leaving him sole heir 
to his property, and his mother soon followed. Melesigenes 
carried on his adopted father's school with great success, exciting 
the admiration not only of the inhabitants of Smyrna, but also 
of the strangers whom the trade carried on there, especially in 
the exportation of corn, attracted to that city. Among these 
visitors, one Mentes, from Leucadia, the modern Santa Maura, 
who evinced a knowledge and intelligence rarely found in those 
times, persuaded Melesigenes to close his school, and accompany 
him on his travels. He promised not only to pay his expenses, but 
to furnish him with a further stipend, urging, that, "While he was 
yet young, it was fitting that he should see with his own eyes the 
countries and cities which might hereafter be the subjects of his 
discourses." Melesigenes consented, and set out with his patron, 
"examining all the curiosities of the countries they visited, and 
informing himself of everything by interrogating those whom he 
met." We may also suppose, that he wrote memoirs of all that he [xii] 
deemed worthy of preservation 2 Having set sail from Tyrrhenia 
and Iberia, they reached Ithaca. Here Melesigenes, who had 
already suffered in his eyes, became much worse, and Mentes, 
who was about to leave for Leucadia, left him to the medical 
superintendence of a friend of his, named Mentor, the son of 
Alcinor. Under his hospitable and intelligent host, Melesigenes 
rapidly became acquainted with the legends respecting Ulysses, 
which afterwards formed the subject of the Odyssey. The 
inhabitants of Ithaca assert, that it was here that Melesigenes 
became blind, but the Colophomans make their city the seat of 



2 Eikos de min aen kai mnaemoruna panton grapherthai. Vit. Horn, in 
Schweigh Herodot t. iv. p. 299, sq. Section 6. I may observe that this 
Life has been paraphrased in English by my learned young friend Kenneth 
R. H. Mackenzie, and appended to my prose translation of the Odyssey. The 
present abridgement however, will contain all that is of use to the reader, for 
the biographical value of the treatise is most insignificant. 



xvi 



The Iliad of Homer 



that misfortune. He then returned to Smyrna, where he applied 
himself to the study of poetry. 3 

But poverty soon drove him to Cumae. Having passed over 
the Hermaean plain, he arrived at Neon Teichos, the New Wall, 
a colony of Cumae. Here his misfortunes and poetical talent 
gained him the friendship of one Tychias, an armourer. "And up 
to my time," continued the author, "the inhabitants showed the 
place where he used to sit when giving a recitation of his verses, 
and they greatly honoured the spot. Here also a poplar grew, 
which they said had sprung up ever since Melesigenes arrived". 4 

But poverty still drove him on, and he went by way of Larissa, 
as being the most convenient road. Here, the Cumans say, 
he composed an epitaph on Gordius, king of Phrygia, which 
has however, and with greater probability, been attributed to 



3 — I.e. both of composing and reciting verses for as Blair observes, "The 
first poets sang their own verses." Sextus Empir. adv. Mus. p. 360 ed. Fabric. 
Ou hamelei ge toi kai oi poiaetai melopoioi legontai, kai ta Omaerou epae to 
palai pros lyran aedeto. 

"The voice," observes Heeren, "was always accompanied by some 
instrument. The bard was provided with a harp on which he played a 
prelude, to elevate and inspire his mind, and with which he accompanied the 
song when begun. His voice probably preserved a medium between singing 
and recitation; the words, and not the melody were regarded by the listeners, 
hence it was necessary for him to remain intelligible to all. In countries where 
nothing similar is found, it is difficult to represent such scenes to the mind; but 
whoever has had an opportunity of listening to the improvisation of Italy, can 
easily form an idea of Demodocus and Phemius." — Ancient Greece, p. 94. 

4 "Should it not be, since my arrival? asks Mackenzie, observing that "poplars 
can hardly live so long". But setting aside the fact that we must not expect 
consistency in a mere romance, the ancients had a superstitious belief in the 
great age of trees which grew near places consecrated by the presence of gods 
and great men. See Cicero de Legg II I, sub init., where he speaks of the plane 
tree under which Socrates used to walk and of the tree at Delos, where Latona 
gave birth to Apollo. This passage is referred to by Stephanus of Byzantium, 

v. N. T. p. 490, ed. de Pinedo. I omit quoting any of the dull epigrams ascribed 



INTRODUCTION. 



xvii 



Cleobulus of Lindus. 5 

Arrived at Cumae, he frequented the converzationes 6 of the old 
men, and delighted all by the charms of his poetry. Encouraged 
by this favourable reception, he declared that, if they would 
allow him a public maintenance, he would render their city most 
gloriously renowned. They avowed their willingness to support [xiii] 
him in the measure he proposed, and procured him an audience 
in the council. Having made the speech, with the purport of 
which our author has forgotten to acquaint us, he retired, and left 
them to debate respecting the answer to be given to his proposal. 

The greater part of the assembly seemed favourable to the 
poet's demand, but one man observed that "if they were to feed 
Homers, they would be encumbered with a multitude of useless 
people." "From this circumstance," says the writer, "Melesigenes 
acquired the name of Homer, for the Cumans call blind men 
Homers. " 7 With a love of economy, which shows how similar 
the world has always been in its treatment of literary men, the 
pension was denied, and the poet vented his disappointment in a 
wish that Cumoea might never produce a poet capable of giving 
it renown and glory. 

At Phocoea, Homer was destined to experience another literary 
distress. One Thestorides, who aimed at the reputation of poetical 
genius, kept Homer in his own house, and allowed him a pittance, 
on condition of the verses of the poet passing in his name. Having 

to Homer for, as Mr. Justice Talfourd rightly observes, "The authenticity of 
these fragments depends upon that of the pseudo Herodotean Life of Homer, 
from which they are taken." Lit of Greece, pp. 38 in Encycl. Metrop. Cf. 
Coleridge, Classic Poets, p. 317. 

5 It is quoted as the work of Cleobulus, by Diogenes Laert. Vit. Cleob. p. 62, 
ed. Casaub. 

6 1 trust I am justified in employing this as an equivalent for the Greek leschai. 

7 Os ei tous, Homerous doxei trephein autois, omilon pollon te kai achreoin 
exousin. enteuthen de kai tounoma Homeros epekrataese to Melaesigenei apo 
taes symphoraes oi gar Kumaioi tous tuphlous Homerous legousin. Vit. Horn. 
/. c. p. 311. The etymology has been condemned by recent scholars. See 
Welcker, Epische Cyclus, p. 127, and Mackenzie's note, p. xiv. 



xviii 



The Iliad of Homer 



collected sufficient poetry to be profitable, Thestorides, like some 
would-be-literary publishers, neglected the man whose brains he 
had sucked, and left him. At his departure, Homer is said to 
have observed: "O Thestorides, of the many things hidden from 
the knowledge of man, nothing is more unintelligible than the 
human heart." 8 

Homer continued his career of difficulty and distress, until 
some Chian merchants, struck by the similarity of the verses they 
heard him recite, acquainted him with the fact that Thestorides 
was pursuing a profitable livelihood by the recital of the very 
same poems. This at once determined him to set out for Chios. 
No vessel happened then to be setting sail thither, but he found 
one ready to Start for Erythrae, a town of Ionia, which faces 
that island, and he prevailed upon the seamen to allow him to 
accompany them. Having embarked, he invoked a favourable 
wind, and prayed that he might be able to expose the imposture 
of Thestorides, who, by his breach of hospitality, had drawn 
down the wrath of Jove the Hospitable. 

At Erythrae, Homer fortunately met with a person who had 
known him in Phocoea, by whose assistance he at length, after 
some difficulty, reached the little hamlet of Pithys. Here he met 
with an adventure, which we will continue in the words of our 
author. "Having set out from Pithys, Homer went on, attracted 
by the cries of some goats that were pasturing. The dogs barked 
on his approach, and he cried out. Glaucus (for that was the 
name of the goat-herd) heard his voice, ran up quickly, called off 
his dogs, and drove them away from Homer. For or some time 
[xiv] he stood wondering how a blind man should have reached such 

a place alone, and what could be his design in coming. He then 

8 Thestorides, thnetoisin anoiston poleon per, ouden aphrastoteron peletai 
noou anthropoisin. Ibid. p. 315. During his stay at Phocoea, Homer is said to 
have composed the Little Iliad, and the Phocoeid. See Muller's Hist, of Lit., vi. 
Section 3. Welcker, /. c. pp. 132, 272, 358, sqq., and Mure, Gr. Lit. vol. ii. p. 
284, sq. 



INTRODUCTION. 



xix 



went up to him, and inquired who he was, and how he had come 
to desolate places and untrodden spots, and of what he stood 
in need. Homer, by recounting to him the whole history of his 
misfortunes, moved him with compassion; and he took him, and 
led him to his cot, and having lit a fire, bade him sup. 9 

"The dogs, instead of eating, kept barking at the stranger, 
according to their usual habit. Whereupon Homer addressed 
Glaucus thus: O Glaucus, my friend, pry thee attend to my 
behest. First give the dogs their supper at the doors of the hut: for 
so it is better, since, whilst they watch, nor thief nor wild beast 
will approach the fold. 

Glaucus was pleased with the advice, and marvelled at its 
author. Having finished supper, they banqueted 10 afresh on 
conversation, Homer narrating his wanderings, and telling of the 
cities he had visited. 

At length they retired to rest; but on the following morning, 
Glaucus resolved to go to his master, and acquaint him with 
his meeting with Homer. Having left the goats in charge of 
a fellow-servant, he left Homer at home, promising to return 
quickly. Having arrived at Bolissus, a place near the farm, and 
finding his mate, he told him the whole story respecting Homer 
and his journey. He paid little attention to what he said, and 
blamed Glaucus for his stupidity in taking in and feeding maimed 
and enfeebled persons. However, he bade him bring the stranger 
to him. 

9 This is so pretty a picture of early manners and hospitality, that it is almost 
a pity to find that it is obviously a copy from the Odyssey. See the fourteenth 
book. In fact, whoever was the author of this fictitious biography, he showed 
some tact in identifying Homer with certain events described in his poems, and 
in eliciting from them the germs of something like a personal narrative. 

10 Dia logon estionto. A common metaphor. So Plato calls the parties 
conversing daitumones, or estiatores. Tim. i. p. 522 A. Cf. Themist. Orat. vi. 
p. 168, and xvi. p. 374, ed. Petav So diaegaemasi sophois omou kai terpnois 
aedio taen Thoinaen tois hestiomenois epoiei, Choricius in Fabric. Bibl. Gr. T. 
viii. P. 851. logois gar estia, Athenaeus vii p 275, A 



XX 



The Iliad of Homer 



Glaucus told Homer what had taken place, and bade him 
follow him, assuring him that good fortune would be the result. 
Conversation soon showed that the stranger was a man of much 
cleverness and general knowledge, and the Chian persuaded him 
to remain, and to undertake the charge of his children. 1 1 

Besides the satisfaction of driving the impostor Thestorides 
from the island, Homer enjoyed considerable success as a teacher. 
In the town of Chios he established a school where he taught the 
precepts of poetry. "To this day," says Chandler, 12 "the most 
curious remain is that which has been named, without reason, 
the School of Homer. It is on the coast, at some distance from 
the city, northward, and appears to have been an open temple of 
Cybele, formed on the top of a rock. The shape is oval, and in the 
[xv] centre is the image of the goddess, the head and an arm wanting. 

She is represented, as usual, sitting. The chair has a lion carved 
on each side, and on the back. The area is bounded by a low rim, 
or seat, and about five yards over. The whole is hewn out of the 
mountain, is rude, indistinct, and probably of the most remote 
antiquity." 

So successful was this school, that Homer realised a 
considerable fortune. He married, and had two daughters, one of 
whom died single, the other married a Chian. 

The following passage betrays the same tendency to connect 
the personages of the poems with the history of the poet, which 
has already been mentioned: — 

"In his poetical compositions Homer displays great gratitude 

11 It was at Bolissus, and in the house of this Chian citizen, that Homer is said 
to have written the Batrachomyomachia, or Battle of the Frogs and Mice, the 
Epicichlidia, and some other minor works. 

12 Chandler, Travels, vol. i. p. 61, referred to in the Voyage Pittoresque dans 
la Grece, vol. i. P. 92, where a view of the spot is given of which the author 
candidly says, — "Je ne puis repondre d'une exactitude scrupuleuse dans la 
vue generale que j'en donne, car etant alle seul pour r examiner je perdis mon 
crayon, et je fus oblige de m'en fier a ma memoire. Je ne crois cependant pas 
avoir trop a me plaindre d'elle en cette occasion." 



INTRODUCTION. 



xxi 



towards Mentor of Ithaca, in the Odyssey, whose name he has 
inserted in his poem as the companion of Ulysses, 13 in return 
for the care taken of him when afflicted with blindness. He 
also testifies his gratitude to Phemius, who had given him both 
sustenance and instruction." 

His celebrity continued to increase, and many persons advised 
him to visit Greece, whither his reputation had now extended. 
Having, it is said, made some additions to his poems calculated 
to please the vanity of the Athenians, of whose city he had 
hitherto made no mention, 14 he sent out for Samos. Here being 
recognized by a Samian, who had met with him in Chios, he 
was handsomely received, and invited to join in celebrating the 
Apaturian festival. He recited some verses, which gave great 
satisfaction, and by singing the Eiresione at the New Moon 
festivals, he earned a subsistence, visiting the houses of the rich, 
with whose children he was very popular. 

In the spring he sailed for Athens, and arrived at the island of 
Ios, now Ino, where he fell extremely ill, and died. It is said that 
his death arose from vexation, at not having been able to unravel 
an enigma proposed by some fishermen's children. 15 

Such is, in brief, the substance of the earliest life of Homer 
we possess, and so broad are the evidences of its historical 
worthlessness, that it is scarcely necessary to point them out 
in detail. Let us now consider some of the opinions to 
which a persevering, patient, and learned — but by no means 
consistent — series of investigations has led. In doing so, I profess 
to bring forward statements, not to vouch for their reasonableness 

13 A more probable reason for this companionship, and for the character of 
Mentor itself, is given by the allegorists, viz.: the assumption of Mentor's form 
by the guardian deity of the wise Ulysses, Minerva. The classical reader may 
compare Plutarch, Opp. t. ii. p. 880; Xyland. Heraclid. Pont. Alleg. Horn. p. 
531-5, of Gale's Opusc. Mythol. Dionys. Halic. de Horn. Poes. c. 15; Apul. de 
Deo Socrat. s. f. 

14 Vit. Horn. Section 28. 

15 The riddle is given in Section 35. Compare Mackenzie's note, p. xxx. 



xxii 



The Iliad of Homer 



or probability. 

"Homer appeared. The history of this poet and his works is 
lost in doubtful obscurity, as is the history of many of the first 
minds who have done honour to humanity, because they rose 
amidst darkness. The majestic stream of his song, blessing and 
fertilizing, flows like the Nile, through many lands and nations; 
and, like the sources of the Nile, its fountains will ever remain 
[xvi] concealed." 

Such are the words in which one of the most judicious 
German critics has eloquently described the uncertainty in which 
the whole of the Homeric question is involved. With no less truth 
and feeling he proceeds: — 

"It seems here of chief importance to expect no more than 
the nature of things makes possible. If the period of tradition 
in history is the region of twilight, we should not expect in it 
perfect light. The creations of genius always seem like miracles, 
because they are, for the most part, created far out of the reach 
of observation. If we were in possession of all the historical 
testimonies, we never could wholly explain the origin of the Iliad 
and the Odyssey; for their origin, in all essential points, must 
have remained the secret of the poet." 16 

From this criticism, which shows as much insight into the 
depths of human nature as into the minute wire-drawings of 
scholastic investigation, let us pass on to the main question at 
issue. Was Homer an individual? 17 or were the Iliad and Odyssey 
the result of an ingenious arrangement of fragments by earlier 
poets? 

Well has Landor remarked: "Some tell us there were twenty 
Homers; some deny that there was ever one. It were idle and 
foolish to shake the contents of a vase, in order to let them settle 
at last. We are perpetually labouring to destroy our delights, our 
composure, our devotion to superior power. Of all the animals 



Heeren's Ancient Greece, p. 96. 

Compare Sir E. L. Bulwer's Caxtons v. i. p. 4. 



INTRODUCTION. 



xxiii 



on earth we least know what is good for us. My opinion is, that 
what is best for us is our admiration of good. No man living 
venerates Homer more than I do." 18 

But, greatly as we admire the generous enthusiasm which 
rests contented with the poetry on which its best impulses 
had been nurtured and fostered, without seeking to destroy the 
vividness of first impressions by minute analysis — our editorial 
office compels us to give some attention to the doubts and 
difficulties with which the Homeric question is beset, and to 
entreat our reader, for a brief period, to prefer his judgment to 
his imagination, and to condescend to dry details. 

Before, however, entering into particulars respecting the 
question of this unity of the Homeric poems, (at least of the Iliad,) 
I must express my sympathy with the sentiments expressed in 
the following remarks: — 

"We cannot but think the universal admiration of its unity by 
the better, the poetic age of Greece, almost conclusive testimony 
to its original composition. It was not till the age of the 
grammarians that its primitive integrity was called in question; 
nor is it injustice to assert, that the minute and analytical spirit 
of a grammarian is not the best qualification for the profound 
feeling, the comprehensive conception of an harmonious whole. 
The most exquisite anatomist may be no judge of the symmetry 
of the human frame: and we would take the opinion of Chantrey 
or Westmacott on the proportions and general beauty of a form, 
rather than that of Mr. Brodie or Sir Astley Cooper. [xvii] 

"There is some truth, though some malicious exaggeration, in 
the lines of Pope. — 

'"The critic eye — that microscope of wit 
Sees hairs and pores, examines bit by bit, 
How parts relate to parts, or they to whole 
The body's harmony, the beaming soul, 



Pericles and Aspasia, Letter lxxxiv., Works, vol ii. p. 387. 



xxiv 



The Iliad of Homer 



Are things which Kuster, Burmann, Wasse, shall see, 
When man's whole frame is obvious to a flea.'" 19 

Long was the time which elapsed before any one dreamt of 
questioning the unity of the authorship of the Homeric poems. 
The grave and cautious Thucydides quoted without hesitation 
the Hymn to Apollo, 20 the authenticity of which has been 
already disclaimed by modern critics. Longinus, in an oft quoted 
passage, merely expressed an opinion touching the comparative 
inferiority of the Odyssey to the Iliad, 21 and, among a mass 
of ancient authors, whose very names 22 it would be tedious to 
detail, no suspicion of the personal non-existence of Homer ever 
arose. So far, the voice of antiquity seems to be in favour of our 
early ideas on the subject; let us now see what are the discoveries 
to which more modern investigations lay claim. 

At the end of the seventeenth century, doubts had begun 
to awaken on the subject, and we find Bentley remarking that 

19 Quarterly Review, No. lxxxvii., p. 147. 

20 Viz., the following beautiful passage, for the translation of which I am 
indebted to Coleridge, Classic Poets, p. 286. 

"Origias, farewell! and oh! remember me 
Hereafter, when some stranger from the sea, 
A hapless wanderer, may your isle explore, 
And ask you, maid, of all the bards you boast, 
Who sings the sweetest, and delights you most 
Oh! answer all, — A blind old man and poor 
Sweetest he sings — and dwells on Chios' rocky shore.'" 

See Thucyd. iii, 104. 

21 Longin., de Sublim., ix. Section 26. Othen en tae Odysseia pareikasai tis 
an kataduomeno ton Omaeron haelio, oo dixa taes sphodrotaetos paramenei to 
megethos 

22 See Tatian, quoted in Fabric. Bibl. Gr. v. II t. ii. Mr. Mackenzie has given 
three brief but elaborate papers on the different writers on the subject, which 
deserve to be consulted. See Notes and Queries, vol. v. pp. 99, 171, and 221. 
His own views are moderate, and perhaps as satisfactory, on the whole, as any 
of the hypotheses hitherto put forth. In fact, they consist in an attempt to blend 
those hypotheses into something like consistency, rather than in advocating 
